Howard Dawking wrote:

"Benelux has it half-right: there is no creator. But he does not follow his
logic all the way through. He insists on inventing an imaginary friend in our
hearts. He fails to identify that the pearl of religion comprises the grain of
sand of mythology, whose purpose is originally to explain the big questions of
existence and purpose; and the layers of calcification that result after
generations of societal manipulation, political conniving, and the intentional
obfuscation and accidental broken telephone of the passage of time."

Robert Benelux responded:

"Dawking is not wrong. What I have called the God inside us, or our
relationship with the laws of the universe, and what he calls 'an imaginary
friend', is indeed an explanation of the big questions.

"But it is more than that, and the difference is crucially important. I can
explain how electricity works; but I don't have a relationship with my
explanation.

"Our relationship with the law of the universe, maybe only because we don't know
it but try to understand it in terms of our own nature, gives us hope and
strength, and allows us to behave in ways that are more positive than if we
believed in nothing more than our own perceived limitations. The U.S. Navy
Seals are subjected to training that teaches them to go beyond their perceived
limitations. But a personal God offers a shortcut. We are able to act beyond
our limitations without having to graduate from Navy Seal boot camp. --
Believing in the assistance of an external power could even have given us an
evolutionary advantage. --

"It also helps us to develop a value system based on both rational evaluation
and emotional response. In order for people to act in harmony with the nature
of a society, having an emotional response will affect their behaviour a lot
more strongly.

"In other words, individuals benefit from a personal God, and society also
benefits. In order to uphold the observable law of the universe -- that law
that allows for the existence of both individuals and societies, and results in
the ongoing struggle of both to survive -- not only must we allow for a
personal God, but are compelled by that law to embrace it, as much as we are
compelled to eat."

----

Robert once said, "If you have children, you'll know that each of your kids
relates to you differently. It's just the same with the way we relate to the
Laws of the universe. Our relationship is a personal response. So if one person
says that their understanding is correct and someone else's is false, unless
they can back up their claim in a provable way, it's about as ridiculous as
saying that your relationship with your dad better reflects his nature than
your sister's relationship with your dad."

----

You are not your car, house, clothes, etc. You are what you do. You are nothing
more and nothing less than what you do.

----

Think about everything you buy. Who is your money going to? Why are you buying
it? ...

----

Don't pick yourself up by putting other people down.

----

It is more important to learn something than to be right. Never be afraid of 
being wrong.

----

You have responsibilities, whether you like it or not. Face them.

----

If it is morally acceptable to kill and to eat cows and chickens then it is
morally acceptable to kill and to eat horses and dogs. If you don't think it is
acceptable to kill and to eat horses and dogs, you ought to be a vegetarian.

----

It is also possible to create an independent organism from a cell of another of
the same kind of organism, so in that respect every cell of every organism is
potentially, under the right conditions, a new organism. So life does not begin
at conception; it is continuous. And there exist morally justifiable reasons
why life can killed. 
