Introduction
============

    We can't expect the laws of the universe to agree with our little whims. 
    -- Robert Benelux, "My Best Guess At The Truth"

I'm Norman. I wrote this story. I'm your narrator. I'm not really a fiction
writer, I actually write software for a living. The story about Robert is just
something I've been meaning to get out, and if you're reading it, that means I
actually managed.

The kind of guy that Robert was, well, I can't tell you in just this paragraph.
You'll have to keep reading. And if I get it right, I hope you'll get a pretty
good idea of what he was like. But you ought to know this from the start: He
was very sure of what he understood was good, and what he understood was bad.
(His understandings didn't always correlate with mine, but they did the vast
majority of the time.) And bad, to him, was unacceptable. This, probably more
than anything else, was the reason for the good things that happened to Robert,
and the bad.

Robert was born to John and Maria Benelux at 3:12 PM on 24 August 1971. He
weighed 3.6 kg, and had a birthmark on the back of his head, that, after his
hair grew, only his parents remembered.

John Benelux was of English descent. Five generations prior, his working class
paternal ancestor lived in Yorkshire. And he transfused his aspirations, and
all his emotional and financial resources into raising his elder son. We have
no idea what happened to his less fortunate younger son. His descendants are
probably still in Yorkshire, constructing constructions, and tallying columns.
But the descendants of the elder son include doctors and diplomats, soldiers
and sales reps amongst their number; British empire builders. John Benelux was
no empire builder. No, he was far greater. He was an empiricist.

His degrees were scientific in nature. Zoology. Information Systems Management.
You could say that at the start of his career, John acquired and tested
knowledge. He went on to manage the tools that allow people to find that
knowledge. And he ended up managing the people that manage those tools.

Robert's mother, Maria, on the other hand, was a nurse. And of German descent.
Her mother had also been a nurse, and her father an engineer. Maria placed less
importance on her genealogy than her husband did, and as a result I know less
about Robert's German heritage. But I do know that Maria's ancestors include a
number of professors and doctors. They were an academic family. Probably the
kind Robert's paternal ancestor aspired to five generations before.

Benelux is an unusual English surname. Robert's father reckoned he must be
descended from a candle maker. A good one.

Why am I telling you all this? Because knowing where Robert came from will give
you an idea of who he was, and why.

Both his parents worked hard. Both his parents were intelligent. And he
certainly got his clear understanding of right and wrong, from his parents.
They were what you would call good people.

Robert also had an older sister. She was 5 years older than him, and they were
never really all that close -- they always lead separate lives. In that
respect, his independence was apparent from an early age. And he probably
inherited that from his mother. She left Germany and her family to be with her
husband.

So those are the ingredients that made up Robert. This story is what he did
with them.

---

Robert Benelux wrote a rather esoteric book with the misleadingly simple title
of "My Best Guess At The Truth". He published it himself with some inheritance
money. Publishers don't generally go in for books like his.

He would have remained unknown if a copy hadn't found its way into the hands of
a talk show host. Not a TV talk show, a podcast talk show.

A lot of writers write better than they talk. Robert didn't write badly, but he
certainly spoke well. Or, more specifically, he explained well. Which is very
useful, when your topic of choice starts with how God is the anthropomorphic
personification of the ultimate laws of the universe across all levels of
complexity. And that's just the start.

Within 25 minutes Robert had shown that well known religious figures, and some
rather obscure ones too, taught us not only psychology and sociology, but a
little genetics and some climatology too. And his aurally fetching interviewer,
Bianca Black, had called him Prophet Bob.

The Internet has a way of spreading a good thing faster than a venereal disease
through a pre-revolutionary French court.

Next thing you know, Robert is getting some very encouraging phone calls asking
for Mr Benelux. And some very discouraging mail addressed to Prophet Bob.

