Outside
=======

    The Ultimate Law Of The Universe Spanning All Levels Of Complexity (let's
    say "TULOTUSALOC" for short) -- Robert Benelux

In his book, "My Best Guess At The Truth", Robert Benelux writes:

"Fools rush in:

"I would postulate that Albert Einstein and Niels Bohr helped us to know God 
better than Pope John Paul II. And conversely, Mother Theresa lived closer to 
the truth than FBI agent Fox Mulder.

"Isaac Newton was a very religious man. In terms of his emphasis in life, 
mathematics was secondary to God. And yet it is his mathematics and physics by 
which we remember him: An apple fell on his head, he discovered gravity and 
built a bridge over the river Cam without using any screws.

"What is important about what Isaac said is that it is disprovable. And 
hundreds of years later an Austrian Jew called Albert did exactly that before 
his 26th birthday. People paid more attention to him when they closely watched 
Mercury orbiting the sun, and Albert proved that his theory was more accurate 
that Isaac's.

"And, again, what is important about what Albert Einstein said is that it is 
disprovable. We still use Newtonian physics. But when it comes to calculating 
orbits, Einstein is the man. And now we are using quantum mechanics when we 
work with subatomic physics.

"Quantum mechanics is also disprovable. That's what makes hard scientists hard. 
Even among the girl scientists, a hard scientists proverbial cock is on the 
proverbial block.

"Now when it comes to the softer sciences, like, oh, let's say, psychology, we 
can pick on the guy who gets called 'The Grandfather of Psychology', Sigmund 
Freud. No matter what you say, Sigmund would say that it boils down to sex, and 
probably something to do with your relationship with your parent of the 
opposite sex. You could argue until you're blue in the face, but Sigmund would 
stick to his guns, and, technically, you can't disprove him. They don't call 
him 'The Godfather' for nothing, you know.

"All scientists though, whether they are as hard as reinforced concrete, or as 
soft as margarine on a hot day, strive towards what they envisage as the Truth 
-- the same light that attracted the big moths like Abraham, Akhenaten, Moses, 
Jesus, Gautama and Mohammed.

"But in Western Europe Christians started to squabble. A lot. In the end they 
agreed to disagree, and we have Catholics and a fruit salad of Protestants. 
Western European thinking was absorbed by Jews and to a degree by Muslims, and 
then atheists took a stand against the rather literal, and rather preposterous 
Western European concept of God.

"A lot of scientists today do not mix their religion with their profession. 
Many would say that science and religion exist in completely separate realms.

"But there are religious people who dictate that even science is subject to 
God.

"Well, frankly, they have it the wrong way round: Science is the most credible 
religion we have. As I already mentioned, science has done more to promote the 
truth than the last Pope ever did.

"Religion, some say, is a leap of faith. Yes, certainly, most religion is a 
massive leap. Science has plenty of astonishing dodges, and surprising vistas 
on the known universe. But all of it is built conservatively and as squarely as
possible on what has been established before.

"There are no leaps of faith when it comes to gravity, or the curvature of 
timespace, or the subatomic force that glues protons into a nucleus.

"No, if fools rush in where angels fear to tread, then at least in that 
respect, scientists are like angels."
